When you implement back propagation
for your neural network,
you need to either compute the slope or
the derivative of the activation functions.
So, let's take a look at our choices of
activation functions and how you can
compute the slope of these functions.
Here's the familiar Sigmoid
activation function.
So, for any given value of z,
maybe this value of z.
This function will have some slope or
some derivative corresponding to,
if you draw a little line there,
the height over width of this
lower triangle here.
So, if g of z is the sigmoid function,
then the slope of the function is d,
dz g of z,
and so we know from calculus that
it is the slope of g of x at z.
If you are familiar with calculus
and know how to take derivatives,
if you take the derivative of
the Sigmoid function,
it is possible to show that it is
equal to this formula.
Again, I'm not going to do
the calculus steps,
but if you are familiar with calculus,
feel free to post a video and
try to prove this yourself.
So, this is equal to just g of z,
times 1 minus g of z.
So, let's just sanity check that
this expression make sense.
First, if z is very large,
so say z is equal to 10,
then g of z will be close to 1,
and so the formula we have on the left tells
us that d dz g of z does be close to g of z,
which is equal to 1 times 1 minus 1,
which is therefore very close to 0.
This isn't the correct because
when z is very large,
the slope is close to 0.
Conversely, if z is equal to minus 10,
so it says well there,
then g of z is close to 0.
So, the formula on the left tells us
d dz g of z would be close to g of z,
which is 0 times 1 minus 0.
So it is also very close to 0,
which is correct.
Finally, if z is equal to 0,
then g of z is equal to one-half,
that's the sigmoid function right here,
and so the derivative is equal to
one-half times 1 minus one-half,
which is equal to one-quarter,
and that actually turns out to
be the correct value of
the derivative or the slope of this
function when z is equal to 0.
Finally, just to introduce
one more piece of notation,
sometimes instead of writing this thing,
the shorthand for the derivative
is g prime of z.
So, g prime of z in calculus,
the little dash on top is called prime,
but so g prime of z is a
shorthand for the calculus for
the derivative of the function of g
with respect to the input variable z.
Then in a neural network,
we have a equals g of z,
equals this, then this formula
also simplifies to a times 1 minus a.
So, sometimes in implementation,
you might see something like
g prime of z equals a times 1 minus a,
and that just refers to the
observation that g prime,
which just means the derivative,
is equal to this over here.
The advantage of this formula is that
if you've already computed the value for a,
then by using this expression,
you can very quickly compute the
value for the slope for g prime as well.
All right. So, that was the
sigmoid activation function.
Let's now look at the Tanh
activation function.
Similar to what we had previously,
the definition of d dz g of z is
the slope of g of z at
a particular point of z,
and if you look at the formula for
the hyperbolic tangent function,
and if you know calculus,
you can take derivatives and
show that this simplifies to
this formula and using
the shorthand we have previously
when we call this g prime of z again.
So, if you want you can sanity check
that this formula makes sense.
So, for example, if z is equal to 10,
Tanh of z will be very close to 1.
This goes from plus 1 to minus 1.
Then g prime of z,
according to this formula,
would be about 1 minus 1 squared,
so there's very close to 0.
So, that was if z is very large,
the slope is close to 0.
Conversely, if z is very small,
say z is equal to minus 10,
then Tanh of z will be close to minus 1,
and so g prime of z will be
close to 1 minus negative 1 squared.
So, it's close to 1 minus 1,
which is also close to 0.
Then finally, if z is equal to 0,
then Tanh of z is equal to 0,
and then the slope is
actually equal to 1,
which is actually the slope
when z is equal to 0.
So, just to summarize,
if a is equal to g of z,
so if a is equal to this
Tanh of z, then the derivative,
g prime of z, is equal to
1 minus a squared.
So, once again, if you've already
computed the value of a,
you can use this formula to very
quickly compute the derivative as well.
Finally, here's how you
compute the derivatives for
the ReLU and Leaky ReLU
activation functions.
For the value g of z is
equal to max of 0,z,
so the derivative is equal to,
turns out to be 0 ,
if z is less than 0 and 1
if z is greater than 0.
It's actually undefined, technically
undefined if z is equal to exactly 0.
But if you're implementing
this in software,
it might not be a 100 percent
mathematically correct,
but it'll work just fine
if z is exactly a 0,
if you set the derivative
to be equal to 1.
It always had to be 0,
it doesn't matter.
If you're an expert in
optimization, technically,
g prime then becomes what's called a
sub-gradient of the activation function g of z,
which is why gradient
descent still works.
But you can think of it as that,
the chance of z being
exactly 0.000000.
It's so small that it almost
doesn't matter where you
set the derivative to be equal to
when z is equal to 0.
So, in practice, this is what
people implement for the derivative of z.
Finally, if you are training a neural network
with a Leaky ReLU activation function,
then g of z is going to be
max of say 0.01 z, z, and so,
g prime of z is equal to 0.01 if z
is less than 0 and 1 if z is greater than 0.
Once again, the gradient is technically
not defined when z is exactly equal to 0,
but if you implement a
piece of code that sets
the derivative or that sets
g prime to either 0.01 or or to 1,
either way, it doesn't really matter.
When z is exactly 0,
your code will work just.
So, under these formulas,
you should either compute the slopes or
the derivatives of your activation functions.
Now, we have this building block,
you're ready to see how to implement
gradient descent for your neural network.
Let's go on to the next video to see that.